Philly SafeMap allows user to signup and or login to the application. If user does not have an account, user may create an account, then the user will be directed to login. After logging in, user is directed to the main screen of the application which is the a map of the user’s current location. On top of the screen there is a search bar that the user may enter to go to a different location(Geolocation).  Clicking search enables a display of crime spots that are shown with markers. On the top right hand corner of the screen, there is a menu options, where the user have the functionality of changing the map type to satellite, hybrid and normal. In the bottom left hand corner, the user can find the ‘setting’ button, that directs to a new screen which user have the ability to filter out based on crime types (Homicide, Rape, Robbery, Aggravated Assault, Burglary, Theft and Motor Vehicle Theft. The user will check on which crime type they want to view and on the top right hand corner there is a save button, where the user can save his/her setting and return to the map. On the bottom of the setting page,  the user can find four buttons, from left to right (Map, Date-picker, Emergency Contact and View Sources). The Map button will let user return to main screen and display the map with their current locations and all of the crime user had selected to view. Date-picker button allows user to choose a date range or select a customized date range going back from today. Emergency Contact option will let the user make a phone call or text message their desired emergency contact with a press of a button and a predefined text message. Lastly, View Sources button will bring  user to a website of 
PHL Crime Mapper(http://www.phlcrimemapper.com/), which is where we have obtained our crime data from.
